A Scalable Resource Management Framework for Differentiated Services
Internet

Andreas Terzis, Lan Wang, Lixia Zhang
terzis, lanw, lixia@cs.ucla.edu


1. Introduction

The ultimate goal of network QoS support is to provide users and
applications with high quality data delivery services.  From a router's
view point, however, QoS support is made of three basic steps:
defining packet treatment classes, allocating adequate amount of resources
for each class, and sorting all incoming packets to their corresponding
classes.  The first step involves standardization, while both the second
and third steps require protocol mechanisms that can scale well with the
ever increasing network size and speed.

Through joint effort of research community and industry the IETF
Differentiated Services (diff-serv) Working Group is reaching agreement on
an initial set of definitions for "per-hop behavior" (PHB), a set of
differentiated packet treatments at each router based on the TOS field
value (called "code-point") carried in the IP header.  This work addresses
both the first and third issues above: it defines the traffic classes as
well as provides a simple packet classification mechanism -- routers easily
sort packets into their corresponding treatment classes by the TOS value,
without having to know which flows or applications the packets belong to.

As work on diff-serv progresses, there has been a continued discussion on
the second issue, that is whether differentiated services would need a
signaling protocol for dynamic resource management. A commonly perceived
notion is that the deployment of diff-serv would most likely start with
manually configured resource allocations at network boundaries, however it
remains an open issue how applications can achieve high quality services
end to end.

We believe that end-to-end performance can be achieved through the
concatenation of PHB's.  We also believe that, although configurations
can give us a jump start on deploying differentiated services, automatic
protocol mechanisms will be needed in near future as the volume and scope
of QoS-requiring traffic increase, to effectively and efficiently meet the
ultimate goal of end-to-end QoS delivery.


2. A Picture of The Internet Today 

The Internet today is made of the interconnection of multiple autonomous
networks called autonomous systems, or administrative domains, because each
is under a separate administrative control.  Each domain contracts its
neighboring domains to deliver the traffic; the neighbor domains, in turn,
may pass the traffic to their neighbors, so on and so forth until packets
reach their destinations.  For example, a campus contracts an ISP to
deliver its traffic and the ISP delivers the campus' traffic either over
its own network if the destinations are connected to the same ISP, or
otherwise pass the packets to other ISPs.

Following the AS-based network topology, as described above, today's
Internet routing architecture takes a two-level hierarchical design. Each
of the administrative domains, or Autonomous Systems, is free to choose 
whatever routing protocol that deems proper to run internally.  To assure 
global connectivity, neighbor domains speak BGP (Border Gateway Protocol) 
with each other to exchange network reachability information. Reachability
information can be aggregated.  For example, if nearby networks share
common prefixes, then reachability reports for them can be merged, so that
a remote site will need to have one entry in its forwarding table showing
the common prefix.

The separation of the Internal Gateway Protocol (IGP) and the Border
Gateway Protocol (BGP), coupled with the ability to aggregate routing
advertisements, provides the routing architecture with proven scaling
characteristics.


3. A Framework for Scalable Resource Management

We propose a hierarchical approach to resource allocation for the global
Internet.  Following the development of the global routing architecture, we
propose that individual administrative domains should be the basic control
unit for resource management.  Bilateral service agreements are made
between neighboring administrative domains regarding the aggregate
border-crossing traffic, while each administrative domain individually makes
its own decision on strategies and protocols to use for internal resource
management to meet internal clients QoS need and to fulfill external
commitments.

We assume that a resource manager, named the Bandwidth Broker (BB) by Van
Jacobson, exists in each administrative domain.  A BB will be in charge of
both the internal affairs and external relations regarding resource
management and traffic control.  Internally, a BB keeps track of QoS
requests from users and applications, and allocates internal resources
according to the domain specific resource usage policies which may specify
which users can use how much resource or resource shares.  The internal
resource allocation can be done in a number of possible ways.  For
bandwidth-rich domains, perhaps little needs be done other than closely
monitoring the network utilization level and re-provisioning accordingly.
For bandwidth-poor domains or those with high variation in link capacities,
the BB can make use of RSVP as the internal signaling protocol to reserve
bandwidth for individual applications, as described in [RSVP].

Externally, a BB will be responsible for setting up and maintaining bilateral
agreements with the BBs of the neighbor domains regarding the QoS
handling of its border-crossing traffic flows.  The BB for a transit domain
(i.e. a provider network) must also keep those external service commitment
to be within its internal resources capacity.  The BB is a logical entity;
actual implementations may take either a centralized or a distributed
approach.

To scale with both the number of user data flows and the link speed, we
propose that the bilateral agreements between BB's be in terms of
differentiated traffic classes.  The BB's instruct border routers of their
own domains how much traffic each border router can export and import for
each PHB class, so that border routers only need to perform QoS control 
for aggregate traffic classes.

This two-tier hierarchical framework gives us both the scalability in 
providing global scale QoS support, as well as the flexibility in managing 
resources within each administrative domain.


4. Summary

Today's Internet is made of interconnected autonomous networks controlled
by administrative domains.  Following the global routing architecture this
position paper sketches out a two-tier hierarchical framework for global
Internet resource management. More specifically, we propose to build a
two-level hierarchy in resource management. To scale well, resource
allocations between domains will be done for aggregate border-crossing
traffic, while allocations within a domain can be done with a number of
different possibilities depending on the user requirements and resource
availability.


5. References

[RSVP] Y. Bernet, F. Baker, P. Ford, R. Yavatkar, L. Zhang, 
"A Framework for End-to-End QoS Combining RSVP/Intserv and Differentiated
Services", Internet-Draft <draft-bernet-intdiff-00.txt>

